I'm still waiting. Shawn.
Okay. I'm gonna take your pointy.
sad-faced guy for my horsey guy.
Stop. Stop. What
is this piece called?
I call him Dwight.
What is this one called?
B.A. Baracus.
Look. Shawn. if you're
gonna play this game.
you're gonna have to learn
what the pieces are called.
But what if I don't
wanna play this game?
Chess is important.
It's about strategy.
It's about anticipating your
opponent's next moves.
This game is an
allegory for life.
Alle-what?
Look. when you're on the force.
you're gonna have to take in
huge amounts of information.
Alibis. motives.
witness statements.
And trust me. If you wanna win.
this is not stuff that you're
gonna make up as you go.
Do you understand?
Now I want you to
focus and get serious.
SHAWN: Uh.
(STAMMERING) What?
What're you trying to say?
Can't remember what it's called.
What did I just... Oh.
never mind. I remember.
Checkmate.
Bye. Dad.
Tell me. is he cheating on me?
Jury's still out.
Do you have something
that he's touched recently?
Oh.
I have the receipt from lunch.
I'm sensing that he always
takes you out for lunch.
That he never pays
with a credit card.
Always cash. That's right.
I'm also sensing that you
can only call him at the office
or on his cell phone.
never. ever at home.
That's dead on.
You must get goose
bumps being around him.
I get something. Daphne. I
have good news and bad news.
The good news is. he's
not seeing someone else.
The bad news. he's married.
What? Are you sure?
Just tell him a friend
told you he was married.
(SIGHS) and his face
will tell you the rest.
But when the
mourning period is over.
this is my friend Gus's card.
He's a good listener. and he's willing to
change everything about himself for a girl.
Shawn. I do not...
No. no. You keep that. Please.
Shawn. we've reached
a certain level of success.
If you wanna keep doing these "Is
my boyfriend cheating on me?" cases.
you're gonna have
to do them without me.
Gus. you continue
to underestimate me.
I'll have you know that
right now. as we speak.
we're on our way to the office
to meet with two gentlemen
named Shockley and Goddard
who have a very big case for us.
So what are we talking?
Robbery? Missing persons?
They want us to look
into the serious matter of...
Well. that actually
wasn't in the e-mail.
So how do you know it's real?
They used all caps. Gus. The
meeting's at 2:00. We better hurry.
It's 2:18.
Well. somebody had to have the
Belgian chocolate fondue. didn't they?
That was you. Shawn.
Well played. sir.
Just let me do the talking.
I don't want you
to scare them off
with your non
sequitur ridiculousness.
Please tell me you're not
Mr. Shockley and Mr. Goddard.
(SIGHS)
I know. you know That
I'm not telling the truth
I know. you know They
just don't have any proof
Embrace the deception
Learn how to bend
Your worst inhibitions tend
to psych you out in the end
Okay. before one of us
goes all crazy and demands
the other one apologize for taking a
case from a couple of grade-schoolers.
let's just hear them out.
What can we do
for you. gentlemen?
One of our teachers
is a murderer.
Okay. I'm sorry.
Please. continue.
He's killed before. and in
two days he's gonna kill again.
And the cops don't listen
to us 'cause we're kids.
Okay. Well. since we're here
and we don't have
another meeting for a week.
which one of your teachers is
going to do this terrible thing?
We don't know.
Who's been murdered?
Who's the next victim?
We don't know. Perfect.
I have no more questions. Shawn?
I got nothing.
Can we just start from the top?
Yes. that's a great idea.
Well. Shock and I
go to Meitner and...
The Meitner School
for gifted students?
These kids are geniuses.
Technically. near genius.
The school has some pretty cool
stuff. so we broke in late at night...
Say no more.
Fight club? No.
To hack into a space probe
and see if we could get it to
blink a word in old Morse code.
Which word?
TOGETHER: (LAUGHING) Boobs.
You went through all
that trouble just to get
some NASA techs
to scratch their heads?
Yeah.
Come on. Gus.
That's kind of funny.
While re-configuring
the receiver.
we accidentally tapped
into a cell phone call
being made from
the Meitner campus.
It was staticky. but we heard a deep.
gravelly voice talking to their cousin.
Someone named Muriel.
And you want us to figure out why
someone would name their kid Muriel?
The voice said something like.
"I'm not gonna be pushed
into a corner again."
Are you sure it
wasn't Dirty Dancing?
And then we also
heard. verbatim.
"If I have to. I'll kill him.
"It won't be my first time.
By Wednesday. he's a goner."
"A goner"? It may have
been James Cagney.
Shawn. can I have a minute?
BOTH: We're taking this case.
You want to take this case?
Miss a chance to go undercover
in high school. a la 21 Jump Street?
Obviously. I'm Johnny Depp. Sadly.
you can only pass for Holly Robinson.
Why can't I be Richard Grieco?
Why would you wanna
be Richard Grieco?
Isn't this the part where you say.
"There ain't no case here. Shawn.
"Just a couple of
kids crying wolf."
I don't sound like Richard
Roundtree. Shawn.
Why are you so eager?
Same as you. I was
a king in high school.
Just because you carried a
scepter. doesn't make you a king.
That was because
I was in Macbeth.
Dude. you played Banquo's kid.
Hey. guys. Can you help us?
Is a lizard's skin
dry and cracked?
(WHISPERING)
We believe that it is.
Guess what today is?
(SCOFFS) It's not one of
those touchy. feely holidays
invented by card
companies to goad me
into buying a present for someone
I couldn't care less about. is it?
No. Today's our anniversary.
Come again?
It's been one year to the day that I came
to Santa Barbara and we got partnered up.
Oh. I didn't get you a present.
I don't want a present. Yeah.
That's what all women say. But believe
me. deep down you'll want a present.
My soon-to-be ex-wife
always hated what I gave her.
Well. what did you
give her? Cash. mostly.
Ugh. Anyway.
This anniversary means that my
one-year probation period is over.
So. what I want.
that is. what would be good...
What I'm trying to say is.
I think I'm entitled to
be primary on a case.
How late are the
shops open tonight?
Chief Vick says molding
young officers is your duty.
and she's already approved this.
Now give me a case.
(SIGHS)
Fine.
See. Homicide. That's a
bit messy for your first time.
Hi-tech burglary. You need
a lot of forensics for that one.
Bake sale slap fight.
Seems easy. but believe
me. I worked one once.
I had to call in
SWAT. Oh. come on.
All right.
A couple of kids came in
complaining about one of their teachers.
Are you sure there's nothing of
lower priority for me to handle?
Lesson number one. O'Hara. There
are no small cases. only small detectives.
Let's roll.
SHAWN: Ah. high school.
You know. I've always wanted to prove
that one of our teachers was a monster.
You remember our freshman
music teacher. Mrs. Jorgenstorm?
She was a Nightbreed.
She was not.
She used to date Craig
Schiffer. She did not.
She wore a ton of make-up and
lived in a cemetery. Next to a cemetery.
So she claimed. If I
remember correctly.
you were always too
afraid to follow her home.
So. any leads yet?
Hold it there. Doogie.
First things first.
Where do I get a juice box and
does it come in grape-a-licious?
Shouldn't you be
doing psychic stuff?
I mean. someone could be killed in
the next 48 hours. Possibly one of us.
(CHUCKLES) If you're so smart.
why don't you solve the thing?
Midterms? Duh!
I need to maintain my GPA to
keep my scholarship stipend.
All right. All right. All right.
Clearly. we have to get inside.
What's our cover gonna be?
Wait. I've got it.
You're the preppy jerk who's
dating the girl I'm in love with.
I'm the lonely cafeteria guy who
mows lawns and has a heart of gold.
Let it go. Shawn. You
can't pass for a teenager.
Yeah. he's right. You got
rhytids around the eyes.
What did he just say
to me? The crow's feet.
Do you squint or
make funny faces a lot?
You know what?
You guys are all nuts.
If I grew my hair out. raised
my voice an octave. I could...
Stop. Shawn. I've
already worked it out.
We're documentarians working on a
new film called Teeniuses: In the Mix.
"Teeniuses"? Yes.
Really. dude? You got "Teeniuses"
right on the tip of your tongue?
In the Mix. We already
got your cover story.
Personally. I'm not sure that I see the
merits of a class in paranormal studies.
but we do let the students choose
one guest instructor a semester.
C. Everett Koop was
crushed that he didn't get it.
What is this. like a study hall?
Oh. no. Recess.
(SNIFFS)
Does it smell like
teen spirit in here?
(SHUSHING)
So. tell me. Headmaster. Can a
former applicant request his or her file?
Oh. no. Why?
Oh. for the general
public's general welfare.
You know. generally.
Debby will give you the
forms you'll need to sign.
An application. Gus?
Just curious.
You applied to this school
back in the day. didn't you?
And you didn't tell me about it.
Who could remember
that far back?
Whoa. whoa. whoa.
Is that why you cried for a
month when we were 10?
Because they rejected
you? Get down!
Excuse me. O'Hara?
Lesson number two. Cops don't wait
in line. They go straight to the front.
Even at Starbucks.
Hi. SBPD.
Can I please get the class schedules
for these students? Thank you.
Lesson number three.
Don't say "Please."
don't say "Thank you."
and definitely don't say "Hi."
Spirit squad auditions
were over 10 years ago.
You're an authority
figure. Act like it.
Ever heard. "You catch
more flies with honey"?
Lesson number four. Don't quote
cornpone country bumpkin sayings
to your commanding officer.
How many lessons are there?
Six hundred thirty-eight.
Welcome to the Meitner School
for gifted children. How may we...
(MOCK GASPING)
It's a miracle! Thank
God you're all right.
We heard a cop named Lassy died.
Jules. tell me you
got the flowers.
Lassy III was a
retired police dog.
Oh.
From the obit. it's amazing what you two
had in common. Strong. dedicated. loyal.
Bouts with ringworm.
Expressive eyes.
Goes like this after he poops.
Shawn.
Seriously. are you
guys working my case?
Case? What case?
No. No. no. no. They've been
after me for a while to teach a class.
What do we say?
Hmm?
Oh. right.
Stay out of our way and
don't get involved. Spencer.
This place is overwhelming.
Where do we even start?
Easy. Who were the eyes and
ears of Dufman Elementary?
Mr. Graves. the custodian.
We had a special bond.
Huh.
Custodians have access
to the building at night.
He could be our bad guy.
If he has a deep and gravelly
voice. he's el suspecto primero.
Yo! How you doing?
(GRUNTING)
I'm mopping up vomit.
How do you think I'm doing?
By the way. those mats
in front of the doors?
They're to rub your shoes on.
Thanks for the extra work.
Whoops. Sorry about that.
I'm Shawn Spencer.
psychic lecturer.
And I sense that something
is amiss in your universe.
Yeah. My lumbago is flaring up.
No. not that. Something a
little more out of the ordinary.
Something? Anything?
Can't you just tell me
what you're looking for?
Did something happen
here on Friday night?
Oh. Um...
Nope. Nothing springs to mind.
I can sense you're lying.
The spirits tell me that
your little pants are on fire.
Fine. I found this weird gold pin
when I had to work late Friday night.
When I mopped this area. no pin.
But when I circled
back to wax. there it was.
So. you're saying it got here
in the middle of the night?
Who do I look like?
Jake and the Fatman?
All I know is that after two weeks
in the lost and found. it's mine. Legit.
Where is this lost and found?
Who loses a microscope
and doesn't come looking for it?
Ear infection
medicines. Inhalers.
And what appears to be 168
pairs of hideous eyeglasses.
"SXY."
Apparently. our perp is so sexy.
he felt the need to die-cast it
onto steel and wear it on his lapel.
That's not an S.
That's the integral sign in calculus
for the area under the curve XY.
Whoever was skulking around here
after hours must be a math teacher.
How many math teachers
work here? Four or five tops?
Eighteen. Hmm.
It's alright. I have a plan.
It's a scary one. We'll have to
rely on all our animal instincts.
We are going to
the teacher's lounge.
Try to blend in. Act natural.
(CLEARS THROAT)
How about these kids today. huh?
Oh. my God! Look at
this selection of donuts!
This is pathetic.
Who left a tenth? I wanna
know how that makes sense.
Shawn. You...
Focus. Math teacher.
There's no math teachers here.
How do you know?
That guy's been wearing goggles.
He's clearly a chem lab teacher.
Violin hickey. Music teacher.
However. a gym teacher
could be more our speed.
Hey. buddy. We're new here.
and we were told to see a math
teacher specializing in calculus.
Professor Hahn.
Handles all remedial math.
That qualifies as remedial.
What's calculus? The one
with the blocks and the shapes?
Do you know where
we can find him?
You can catch him at the end
of the day. He's in my carpool.
Sweet! Gus. this
school has a carpool.
Answer to our prayers.
Why? Gus managed to
get his car impounded.
He parked on a statue.
I'm contesting the ticket.
SHAWN: Here's the thing. We
had to take the bus to school today.
I accidentally gave
myself a wedgie.
Gus had to sit next
to the girl who peed.
Why are you
telling me all of this?
I thought it seemed obvious.
Can we get a lift home?
(SNORING)
So. must be fun
being a gym teacher.
You get to play sports all day.
I teach gym at a school
full of prodigy nerds.
I start off my day
by getting 300 notes
excusing kids from gym
class because of rickets or IBS.
I tossed a ball
at a student once.
He wet his pants. and his
parents filed a civil suit against me.
Professor Hahn? Hahn!
Math teacher. right?
Yes. Are you the
new psychic lecturer?
That I am. I'm getting
a feeling about you.
Are you a Right Said Fred fan?
Are you too sexy for your shirt?
Excuse me?
I'm sensing you're
so sexy it hurts.
Boop!
Oh. How'd you find that?
Hey. moron! Right up here!
I'm sensing Riley may have forgotten because
you didn't use the carpool last Friday.
Wow. that's
right. I stayed late.
Okay. Right here.
Stop right here.
Deep voice. Missed
the carpool on Friday.
Sounds like our guy.
Now we just got to figure out why
and how he's gonna kill somebody.
(KNOCKS ON WINDOW)
And one more thing.
If you are late picking me up in
the morning. I will tear your head off.
Maybe just the how.
GUS: Are you prepared
for your psychic seminar?
SHAWN: Gus. please.
Any leads? I'm adapting
this into a Nancy Drew fanfic.
I believe whoever's
involved is in the vicinity.
We made notes for you. Bullet
points you might want to try to hit.
Don't show any fear.
Don't split any infinitives.
Don't dangle your participles.
At least not in public.
Look. if I understood
what you guys were saying.
I'd still be a virgin.
Now run along.
Go to class.
Really?
(BELL RINGS)
Hahn is here.
The seminar is open to both
students and teachers. Gus.
I personally extended
Hahn an invitation
so I can grill him in front
of a live studio audience.
If he's killed before.
I'll get him to confess.
How are you gonna interrogate someone
and teach a class at the same time?
First the carrot.
and then the stick.
You don't even know
what that means. do you?
Leave me alone.
"Phsysics." The
physics of psychics.
I am Professor Shawn Spencer.
I will be your psychic
ferryman over the River Styx.
That's Gus. my ferry. Hello.
Each one of us is born with
a kernel of what I like to dub
"paranormalevolance."
I. however. was born with an
extra-normal amount. Two cobs to be exact.
Allow me to demonstrate.
Congratulations on getting
your braces removed.
That doesn't mean
you're a psychic.
Maybe you're just
hyper-observant.
You wear that white sweatshirt
every day. Shall I tell the class why?
You.
You. young man. A little aloe will
do wonders for that combination skin.
And perhaps you should
use more care while shaving.
or just wait until you can
grow facial hair altogether.
You could've just smelled
my aftershave on the way in.
How about a real test? I'll
write the answer on the board.
And I'll tell you the question.
Have at it. young Trebek.
Trebek. I said.
This is Jeopardy.
Potent potables!
Questions that start with P!
The smartass who thinks
he's gonna make me look silly.
Who is this guy?
(CHUCKLES)
Ooh! Your negativity is really
impeding my psychic ability.
Or you're just a big fraud.
You know what? Go
to the principal's office.
Wait a second. Get
out of here. Go. Go.
Go. Get out of
here. Get out of here.
None of you should be
friends with him. Psst! Hahn.
Professor Hahn.
I'm getting something from you.
A kind of darkness. Yes.
I see you clearly.
With a target.
I shop at Target.
Sure. But I...
I see you on a cell
phone with your cousin.
Plotting. planning.
Something secret.
Yes. Yes. I've been planning
a surprise party
for my sister-in-law.
She's impossible to
surprise. That's amazing.
Yeah. well. if she's gonna have
puppies. she's gonna have puppies.
There's nothing
we can do about it.
Look. if you'd had
her fixed like I...
Do you need something?
Yes. actually.
Well? Well. what?
Well. order me off the phone. You
need me to work. and I'm wasting time.
That's a nice touch.
I've been reviewing the statement
we took from the kids on campus.
They said whoever
this teacher is.
he's already killed once
and he's going to kill again.
Right. Right.
It strikes me that it's difficult to
solve a crime that hasn't happened yet.
So why don't we focus our attention
on the murder that already has?
Makes sense. Great.
These are the case files
for every unsolved homicide
in the Santa Barbara area
over the last five years.
Lot of paper cuts
there. Have fun.
No. I need you to
review these and tell me
if there are any connections
with the Meitner faculty.
Yeah. I'm not gonna do that.
You delegate this
background stuff all the time.
To me. usually. almost always
when I have dinner plans.
Now. go through these with a fine-toothed
comb and tell me what you find.
If it's not too much trouble.
O'Hara. you are
drunk with power.
I know. Isn't it great?
And that amazing
demonstration is physisics at work.
It's like thinking of a
song. and then bam!
It's the next tune on the radio.
Or that moment when you
know it's right to kiss a girl.
(GUS CLEARS THROAT) That's
when you have used the power.
Professor Hahn. I'm
still sensing something...
Professor?
Call me Sensei.
How can we harness...
Ah. ah. ah. Sensei.
Sensei? Yes?
How can we harness this
power to help us kiss girls?
(LAUGHS)
I'll take it from here. Shawn.
I don't know. Gus.
Now may not be the time to impede
their psycho-sexual development.
Well. maybe you have forgotten
that I was the one who took
the hottest girl in
school to the prom.
That's because I told
her you were dying.
Otherwise. I would've had to
pay for the limo myself. and...
Let me take this. please.
Gus. my ferry.
Thank you. Shawn.
Now. kissing someone for the
first time can be tricky business.
I like to employ the
Kadeem Hardison method.
When you're on a date...
Uh. uh! I can sense a question
forming in all of your minds.
If it's "Who is
Kadeem Hardison?"
or "How do we ask
someone on a date?"
put them down.
Listen. It's not your fault.
Just look at this class.
You're all a bunch of dudes.
Um. we're girls.
That's awkward.
(BELL RINGS)
I'll cover all the dating
stuff in my next seminar.
"Puberty: Monster or
Misunderstood Friend?"
That kid I sent to the office
had some weird zit cream on.
Professor Enrico.
(LAUGHING)
Guster. Burton Guster. You
interviewed me for admission.
Math prodigy? I interview
people all the time.
Was this recently?
Semi-recent.
Twenty years ago.
But I tap-danced in trochaic
tetrameter. Made you wanna cry.
That rings a bell.
So. visiting the old alma mater?
No. I went to public school.
Really? I could've sworn I
recommended admission.
Either way. I assume a person
with your skills ended up at JPL
(CHUCKLING) or
some kind of think tank.
Actually. I ended up
in pharmaceuticals.
You know. curing stuff.
Well. keep up the good work.
Thank you.
Dude. you didn't even
mention Magichead.
Guys. we're freaking out.
We're pretty sure
Professor Hahn is our guy.
So turn him in to the cops.
Not without proof. Know
anything about him?
The only time we see him
is when he gets his espresso
in the morning before homeroom.
There's an espresso
bar here on campus?
Wait! Wasn't Hahn
involved in that thing?
You remember that thing?
That thing with the other
thing? No. no. Just the first thing.
From five years ago? When the
student attacked the professor?
Oh. yeah. That could
have been Hahn.
Some student attacked Hahn and he
made sure the headmaster expelled him.
Who was the student
that attacked him?
According to the
school computers.
the only kid to be expelled in the
last 10 years was a Lester Baekeland.
What are you doing?
Getting the plague. apparently.
God!
Babcock. Babette.
Battra-something.
Baekeland. God!
(COUGHS)
I see why you wanted
to go here. Gus.
They keep meticulous records
of everything. just like you.
Uh-huh.
Expelled for cheating.
Dude. there's a transcript of
his hearing. What does it say?
Let's see. The kid claimed
Hahn busted him for cheating
and tried to extort his scholarship
money from him to stay quiet.
Hahn denies it.
The headmaster. of course. sides
with the teacher. The kid gets expelled.
Huh.
That means Hahn
is a blackmailer.
Maybe he threatened
the wrong person this time.
Gus?
I got in.
I applied and I got in.
That means a lot. buddy.
You'd rather stay with your best
friend than. you know. have a future.
No. Shawn.
It says. "Parents of
applicant refused admission."
If I had known I'd gotten
in. I would have been ghost.
This place has a direct
line to the Ivy League.
Why would my
parents turn it down?
I don't know. Maybe it
was just too expensive.
I could have gotten
financial aid. Shawn.
Half the kids here are on
scholarships with stipends.
Could we not obsess
about this right now?
We do have a murder to prevent.
I'm not obsessing. Shawn.
I just found out that the course of my life
may have been changed by my parents.
You've seen Sliding Doors.
I most certainly have not.
Yes. you did! Dude! I
have not seen Sliding Doors.
It was me. you and Missy
Isaacs. What are you talking about?
I'm talking about a Gwyneth Paltrow
vehicle that I know I never saw!
GUS: Oh. please!
I know you're home.
This is my fifth message.
Call me back.
They're just screening my
calls until I have to let this go.
But it's not gonna happen.
Gus. let's face it.
Your parents thought splitting us
up at a young age was a mistake.
And I can't say I blame them.
For a while. I was
your only friend
that wasn't imaginary or
an action figure of some kind.
Shawn. if anything. my parents
wanted me to stay in public school
so that I would stand out
compared to people like you.
Yeah. no holes in that theory.
I don't know which is worse.
my parents dodging my calls
or you volunteering me to pick up
a murderer first thing in the morning.
Dude. it is your turn
to drive the carpool.
What's our plan?
Today is Murder Day.
Speaking of Murder Day. is
that really what you're wearing?
Shawn. in about two minutes. we're
gonna be in a confined space with a killer.
Please tell me you
have a good reason.
Of course I have a
good reason. Gus.
This time it'll be
just you. me and him.
and I will totally
break him down.
GUS: That's Hahn's house.
Or maybe it'll just
be you and me.
Well. according to our arson
investigator. here is our murderer.
Apparently. there was a
slight gas leak in the stove.
Overnight. room
fills with natural gas.
Coffee pot clicks
on in the morning.
there's a spark and kaboom.
No. I'm sensing it was
definitely more of a kablam.
So you're saying
this was an accident?
Arson investigator says
there's no sign of foul play.
The only time we see him is when he gets
his espresso in the morning before homeroom.
Wait. I'm having a vision.
Hahn preferred Italian
coffee. Espresso.
Why would he be
brewing coffee here
if he was gonna get his
fix in the morning at school?
I'm sensing our killer brought
the coffee machine here
and used it as a detonator
after creating the gas leak.
What killer. Spencer? Our
expert says it's an accident.
I say murder. It's what drew
me to this wretched place.
Talk to the girl who
makes the espresso.
I usually don't do this. but I have
a strong sense she'll back this up.
Hahn had a cup first
thing every morning.
What do you call
those coffee people?
They're not cashiers.
they're not waitresses.
Barrista.
Gus. if you don't know the
answer. don't make up words.
Dude. Hahn was broke.
No wonder he's a blackmailer.
The due date for the payment
is the same as Murder Day.
Coincidence?
I think not.
It was staticky. but we heard a deep
gravelly voice talking to their cousin.
Someone named Muriel.
We are so on this case now.
Your call. O'Hara.
Either it's an accident
and we're done.
or it's a homicide and
there's a killer on the loose.
I don't buy this accident
angle for a second.
Those kids practically
said this would happen.
Let's bring them
back in for questioning.
If you confess now.
name your accomplices.
I will let the DA know that
you cooperated and maybe.
just maybe. no guarantees.
just maybe. they'll
cut you a break.
That's terrible. What?
Am I scared? Am I quaking? No.
That was what I
call lowercase mad.
You need to be uppercase mad!
Those strange kids
are in Interrogation B.
Listen. O'Hara.
Given your slightly
pedestrian performance
and the fact that this has now
jumped to a straight-up homicide.
maybe I should
take over as lead.
But why? It's my case.
Which was fine when it
was just kids telling tales.
but there are certain nuances
involved in a murder investigation
which require a more
experienced touch.
Nuances the chief says
I'll learn by being primary.
Yeah. but... But what?
There was an explosion.
I've never had a case
with an explosion before.
I've had assault
and burglary cases.
Once I even had a
murder by thermometer.
but I've never had an explosion!
I mean. come on. Haven't
you ever pictured yourself
trying to outrun a fireball
down a dark tunnel?
No.
Obviously. due to recent events. we
are taking a closer look at everything
surrounding the school. including
the statement you gave to us.
You mean. when we predicted someone
was going to die today. and they did?
Well. that and...
Watch your mouth. kid.
Okay. I you're not fooling anybody.
We know what's going on here.
What he means is.
please tell us again about the
phone call that you overheard.
No. Tell us about your
relationship with Hahn!
You little son of
a... Lassiter. stop!
They're teenagers.
We're sorry.
Lesson 63. Do not
apologize to the perp.
They're not perps.
You don't know that!
You two aren't really acquainted
with game theory or
prisoner's dilemma. are you?
Huh?
He means you two don't really
get the good cop-bad cop dyad.
Are you guys. like. together?
No. She's way out of
his league. But no ring.
GODDARD: Given his
age. I'm guessing divorced?
I... What?
Ooh. Still can't talk about it.
So it's relatively recent then.
I'm betting separated.
not divorced.
Did you ever just
listen to her problems
rather than always
trying to solve 'em?
No. you had to be the
big tough cop. didn't ya?
You never let her inside.
Here. You see this. brainiac?
This is what's waiting
for you when you turn 18.
You're gonna graduate and
get your diploma. and then bam!
We're taking a trip
down to the docks.
That doesn't look very intimidating
with. you know. the one arm.
(INHALES DEEPLY)
When did my house
become a daycare center?
Dad. you've been bugging me
for months to fix your computer.
I finally bring the
geek squad in to do it.
and now you're gonna
give me a hard time?
Thank you!
Hahn had someone's
juvenile record.
Maybe he dug up
something on our killer's past.
which means we have to
hack into the juvie database.
Yeah. I'm with you.
except for the part about
coming to my dad's house.
Well. according to the kids.
the hack-in may come back to us.
Now the authorities will be
led to an antique computer
purchased by a former cop.
Can you say wild goose chase?
Jeez. This computer is ancient.
I didn't realize ColecoVision
was still in business.
All right. I'm in.
Muriel Juvenile
Hall/Halfway House.
What am I looking for?
I'm sensing our investigation
centers on the year 1991.
'91?
There's nothing but a
bunch of photos here.
Click on the top right.
That's that kid I sent
to the principal's office.
Kirk Gödel.
Why the hell is a
photo from today
mixed in with photos from '91?
It's not. This photo
was taken 15 years ago.
I'm having a vision.
The Man from Snowy River.
Eddie Macon's Run?
Spartacus. Kirk Douglas!
Yes. See if there's a
student named Kirk.
The registrar gave me
access to all their files.
(SIGHS)
It's perfectly normal. you know.
What is? The anxiety
of being in charge.
I can sense you have the weight
of the world on your shoulders.
I just really want
to get this right.
Oh. I've got something.
Kirk Gödel.
SHAWN: Gödel.
That's almost pronounced like "girdle"
because of the omelet on the "O."
I'm pretty sure
that's an umlaut.
I've heard it both ways.
Let's see. No juvenile record.
Only child. All stats match
up with his school records.
Nothing out of the ordinary.
Let's see what Google says.
Search it with the word Muriel.
Oh. here's an article from
the Muriel County Newsletter.
According to this article.
Kirk Gödel and his parents
died five years
ago in a car crash.
There should be a
death certificate on file.
but there's no sign of it.
What the hell is going on?
A little aloe will do wonders
for that combination skin.
Circle your horses. Jules. We're
about to crack your case like an egg.
And then we'll make
some umlauts with shallots.
And justice.
(BELL RINGS)
Please take your seats!
Good. I'm glad you're all on time
for Phsysics 2: The Wrath of Kahn.
Today's lecture will
cover comeuppance
and how to solve a
crime in a crowded room.
Someone here is living a lie.
Someone in this room
is a ghost-faced killer.
It's not you.
But you have to do something
about the hair. immediately. Okay?
I'd start now.
You. Your heart is pure.
I'd say lose the earring. but
I actually think he pulls it off.
But you! Yeah.
Why do they always run?
Don't they know it
makes them look guilty?
You need this guy?
Thank you. Detective Lassiter.
Have a seat.
You mind telling us
what we're doing here?
Well. as the beautiful. industrious
Detective O'Hara has already gathered...
You're not the real
Kirk Gödel. are you?
Will the real Kirk
Gödel please stand up?
I don't think that's
gonna happen.
You stole the real
Kirk Gödel's identity
so that you could
get into this school.
(GASPS)
But there's more to this
case than stolen identity.
Yes.
I'm sensing a much
darker. diabolical past.
You did a stint in juvie for
causing someone's death.
Fifteen years ago.
What are you nuts?
He's a kid. True.
So how could this
be possible. class?
Time travel.
He cryogenically froze himself
in order to travel to the future.
No. He's a clone
of the original.
You know what?
Just never mind. guys.
Just save it for your
online role-playing.
He's wearing makeup. Is he gay?
No.
(STAMMERING) Well.
maybe. I don't know.
But the reason he's
wearing makeup
is because he is actually 30.
trying to pass for a teenager.
Thirty? What kind of
moisturizer do you use?
Class. I would
advise you. take notes.
There will be a test on this.
You were always the
smartest kid in your class.
but with juvie on your record.
you couldn't get into college.
Then one day. you read a story
about a 15-year-old
from your hometown
who died in a fiery car crash.
And that was the
real Kirk Gödel.
And you had a light-bulb moment.
All your life. people thought you
were younger than you looked.
so you decided to
take advantage of that
and hit a huge reset
button on your life.
You forged Kirk's documents.
then you went online and
deleted his death certificate.
A new identity plus
your natural intelligence
meant you were a
cinch to make Meitner.
Now you would graduate from one
of the best high schools in the country.
get a scholarship to the Ivys and
become a yuppie captain of industry.
And it was all rolling
along beautifully until Hahn
discovered your
dirty little secret.
He blackmailed you for
your scholarship stipend.
He needed the money to make
a bank payment by Wednesday.
Money you weren't
willing to pay.
You were so distraught you
called your cousin to vent.
You decided that the only
way out was to kill Hahn
and make it look
like an accident.
Finally. you hacked in and deleted
all records that you were ever in juvie.
Brilliant until the end.
Well. until this last part
when you got caught
on the wild line.
Like a salmon.
Pencils down!
Come on.
Cuff him. O'Hara.
But here. use mine.
You've earned it.
Anything else I need to learn?
There's one last lesson.
Forget all the other lessons
and know that you're a good cop.
You know I'm gonna need
those cuffs back. right? Good.
Martinsdale?
Macendale.
Jay Macendale.
Once we had the name. it
was pretty easy to track the rest.
When he was 15. he
stole a car on a dare.
accidentally
killed a pedestrian.
And that's what
got him in juvie.
I can't believe he passed himself
off as a teenager for this long.
I don't know. Dad.
Slap a wig on you.
you're a spitting image of
yourself when I was a kid.
What is that supposed to mean?
What's his problem?
He finally got
ahold of his parents.
Don't tell me it
was too expensive.
My file said I qualified
for financial aid.
Quality of life?
They have 24/7
slushee machines there.
The lockers are made with
teak. That's the strongest wood.
These pieces look like they're hand
carved. Shawn. What's with the generosity?
I saw you were still using the
ratty board with the plastic pieces.
so I went ahead and
shoplifted this for you.
I'm kidding. I bought it.
Those kid geniuses
turned me on to a great IPO.
Now. remember.
I win. I get the
truck for a week.
All right. How about I win.
you wash the truck for a week.
Yeah. I don't really
understand what that means.
I'm out there in a
pair of jean shorts...
Shawn. focus. continuously
washing the vehicle...
Focus.
GUS: Too far to drive?
You derailed my future
because Dad hates curvy roads?
I could've been the
next Wittgenstein!
I never got carsick
a day in my life.
Gus doesn't deal very
well with surprises.
GUS: I'll talk to
you later. Mom!
You never told him I was the
one who ran over his dog. did you?
Dad. no!
One thing at a time.
Thank God that dog was 17.
Checkmate.
In between the lines
there's a lot of obscurity
I'm not inclined to
resign to maturity
If it's all right then
you're all wrong
But why bounce around
to the same damn song
You'd rather run
when you can't crawl
I know. you know That
I'm not telling the truth
I know. you know They
just don't have any proof
Embrace the deception
Learn how to bend
Your worst inhibitions tend
to psych you out in the end
I know. you know